
## Development strategy
I'll take a shot at test driven development. I hope this will help keep my project simple.

I used this article https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/test-driven-development-what-it-is-and-what-it-is-not-41fa6bca02a2/ to write this post, but I've ready many like it in the past.

* Write a test as if I'm a demanding user actually implementing something.
* Write just enough code to make the test pass. Violate best practices. Duplicate code. Also, keep track of doubts.
* Refactor as if I'm a demanding code reviewer

Let's also put in some criteria for my tests.

My unit tests should:
* Be written before the code
* Run in less than 100ms
* Be self-contained (no database, file system, network...)

## Coding

### Rename unknown-second-project to evolution-sim

* Update src/index.html link
* Rename src/projects/unknown-second-project
* Restart `npm run server`

### Add jest

Add jest https://github.com/basarat/typescript-book/blob/master/docs/testing/jest.md
```
npm i jest @types/jest ts-jest -D

jest.config.js

module.exports = {
  "roots": [
    "<rootDir>/src"
  ],
  "testMatch": [
    "**/__tests__/**/*.+(ts|tsx|js)",
    "**/?(*.)+(spec|test).+(ts|tsx|js)"
  ],
  "transform": {
    "^.+\\.(ts|tsx)$": "ts-jest"
  },
}

package.json

{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "jest",
  },
}
```

[Make aliases work in Jest](2020-02-23.html)

### My world

How do I want my world to be?

See inspirations
* [2020-03-02 blog post](2020-03-02.html)
    * https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCKzJFdi57J53Vr_BkTfN3uQ/featured
    * https://ncase.me/
    * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1AElONvi9WQ

Options
* 2d grid
* 2d plane
* 3d grid
* 3d
* tiles (like civ4)
* graph

My main goal is to simulate hypertumors, so that's cancer on top of cancer. I think that lens itself to **layers of 2d planes**, similar to Creeper World.

I went back and watched Nicky Case's evolution of trust and Primer's evolution of aggression and both of these actually use 1-off encounters to simulate evolution. I assume simulating encounters on a 2d plane is more difficult. Is there a simpler way to simulate hypertumors? Primer uses a 2d plane for his natural selection video.

Let me think this through a bit more. What's the simplest model that might show hypertumors? The basics of the basics is cellular division. Cells split into two. Cells need resources to divide and resources to just exist. I'll use Kurzgesagt's video resources, energy and food. Cells have a life span. Cancer cells do not have a life span. Cells have kill switches if something goes wrong. A cell can spontaneously turn into a cancer cell. The immune system kills cancer cells. I can simplify the mutation rate as a single number. The visualization they used was actually a grid. Perhaps I can think about it more like Factorio or Mindustry. The blood vessels are like the water pipes in Factorio.

Possible mutations
* Can't kill itself (cancer)
* Able to hide form the immune system
* Able to call for resources
* Multiply quicker

Let's go with a 2d grid with densities. Each square has a certain number of normal cells and cancer cells.


Let me ballpark the size of the grid.

1e17 blue whale cells over 100+ years
3e13 human cells over 100 years
1e10 mouse cells over 2 years

Source: Kurzgesagt's video

